- [Instructor] Let's take a closer look at AWS Lambda,
which is Amazon's function as a service platform.
Simply put, a lambda function is the packaging of your code
that executes every time it is triggered by an event.
It can be written in many different languages.
You can bundle any libraries
or dependencies that the code needs.
A function is executed with Windows Runtime,
provided by AWS.
You have the option to choose amongst six
different runtimes in different versions
that are paired with the Amazon Linux distribution.
For example,
Java comes in with three different Java runtimes.
However, what if we wanted
to use a different language or version?
In that case,
you will want to look at AWS Lambda custom runtimes.
Runtime is responsible for running the function setup code
and reading the input data from lambda runtime API.
Runtime passes these events to the function main method
called handler, which returns back the response to lambda,
which is sent back to the caller.
For each runtime, you have the option
to select how much memory is allocated.
From 128 megabytes all the way through 10 gigabytes,
which also controls how much CPU power
your code will have access to.
For example, at 1,769 megabytes,
a function has the equivalent of one full virtual CPU.
And it's 10 gigabyte, six virtual CPUs.
Why not always use the highest memory?
Well you could, but you might get surprised
with high bills at the end of the month.
Lambda costs are calculated
based on the number of requests for a function
and the duration it takes for your code to execute.
But the price increases proportionally
on the amount of memory you allocate to the function.
Does it mean you need to stick
to the lowest amount of memory?
Well, with the lowest memory,
your function might run slower.
Therefore impacting cost as they're calculated by duration.
How do you know what to pick?
well, you need to do your own testing.
Or even better, you can do that with AWS Power Tuning
to find the balance between the speed and the cost.
Once we have our lambda deployed,
lambda servers is ready and waiting for an event to arrive.
But what is an event?
The event is a request that contains the data
for your function to process.
When an event is received by lambda,
then your code starts its execution.
When the function code finishes running,
it can handle another request.
In case your function
gets more than one request at a time,
lambda will take care of scaling your code
by launching another micro virtual machine.
If your functional receives 100 concurrent requests,
lambda will spin up 100 micro virtual machines for you.
There are multiple ways to invoke your lambda function.
You can configure multiple triggers
to invoke your lambda function in response
to lifecycle events, external requests, or schedule.
Events could be something such as the upload
of a document to S3 bucket.
You can configure lambda to receive and process the object.
For external requests, the most common way
is when someone makes an HTTP request
to a specific endpoint on the API gateway.
You lambda function gets invoked.
If you want to read and process items, for example,
SQS queue or DynamoDB streams,
you don't need to write the code to pull that.
Instead, you can use event source mapping.
You can configure mapping
so AWS Lambda will pull those items
and send them to your function in batches.
Invoking your lambda function can be done
either with a synchronous or asynchronous call,
depending on if you want to send a response
from a code or not.
For most threats, API operations,
the client will want a response.
So it makes sense to use synchronous execution.
In the case of a long latency operation,
it would make sense to use async operations.
And use another mechanism to inform the client
if the operation failed or were successful.